# Amazon Leadership Principles 

*As of 02/14/2021 in preparations for interviews*

## Self Review

### Overview about self
I am a generalist that has a wide breadth of experience (mobile development, backend systems, ML workloads). This allows me to be versatile and pick up virtually any task, come up with elegant solutions & designs that delights customers. 

Top strength : Customer Obsession (Invent & simplify a close second)
Area of Growth : Backbone disagree & commit (Hire & Develop the best a close second) 

### What energizes me the most
Building teams and developing an engineering culture that can get things done, done right, has happy engineers and satisfied customers.

## Projects

### RoboMaker Simulation-Experience (Jan 2021)
Think big. New domain 


### RLCamp (Q3, Q4 2020)


### ROS-2 DDS on resource constrained environments (Q3 2019)
S: Lighthouse customer debating if they should migrate to ROS2 


ROS-2 (Robot operating system) is an open source robotics middleware. 
It is a AWS strategic project, we want top companies to use ROS (we can contribute and make ROS Production grade)
iRobot wanted to invest in transitioning to ROS (and they are a lighthouse customer). 
Their legacy devices were running on super low power compute - ROS2 was taking up way too much of the resource, leaving very little for their actual robot to run. 
I dove deep into the code to profile the software , Identified several other 3rd party vendors who were offering a middleware replacement.  Delegated the task of integrating the middleware to 2 engineers (one for each vendor). Built a standarized benchmark to measure all 3 middleware, showed that some vendors were indeed performing better. 
Worked with iRobot to on-board this middleware onto their devices. 
Work resulted in endorsement from iRobot in ROS-CON, this resulted in community realizing that there are better alternatives, culminating in 2021 where they announced the change of the default middleware to be the one we recommended. 
Tags:  Customer obsession, Dive Deep 

### ROSBag on S3 cloud extension (Q1 2020)
Insisted on 100% code coverage for every commit. Team pushed back saying it can't be done. 
Wrote the first 10 classes for the CE, demonstrated how to write them in-such a way that its erognomic to write tests. 
Then wrote tests, integrated with coverlay to achieve 98% code-coverage. Released the CE with 96% coverage 3 months later.
Tags: Insist on highest standards. 



### Sample Application - CI / CD pipeline (q2 2019)
Deliver results, insist on highest standards 

### Tracy Robot for Re:Invent 2018
Got a 200 pound robot that we wanted to demonstrate for CES. 
Worked on getting to respond to voice commands and navigate in 2-3 days (on time for CES). 
It used some of the CE we build for RoboMaker and was a big crowd puller giving RoboMaker team a chance to talk to many robotics companies. 
Tags: Hustle


### Scheduled Rides on Uber (2016-2018)

98% code coverage for Scheduled Rides API. API instrumented from day one to provide insights into how an where customers are requesting rides. 
Have only one LSE related to scheduled rides in the 2 years I worked on it. LSE related to a bad release on iOS client, that browned out the service end points with too many requests. Certain holidays are peak loads for Uber. The backend API relies on geo-fences to determine if the scheduled rides are allowed or not. 2 layered safety, on peak load days we cache the geofences locally on mobile to ensure they don't call the service to check if rides are allowed from a particular location. 
Bug in mobile flow resulted in code not consulting the local cache , but repeatedly pinging the backend for geofence information. We had to turn off the feature on the app via a feature flag pushing a fix to mobile phone was not possible. Holiday duration was a couple of hours so we did not attempt to fix the backend. Corrective action was to build another layer of caching on the server (to avoid invoking the geofencing service).
Tags: Highest standards, Invent & simplify 


### Amazon network location provider for FireOS


### TPH client for FireOS
Task: Kindle e-ink devices had a mechanism by which ebooks would auto download on a customer's device / phone / desktop-client etc. 
This was written in C, port this over to Java / Android for the first version of the Kindle Fire Tablet. 
Code base was a ~1000 line C code written inline (embedded fashion). Decided not to implement it that way, instead worked with service team to understand the protocol.
Identified that it was finite state machine. Worked on an elegant design wherein it could federate the todo to multiple android system apps and co-ordinate the acks. 
Tags: Innovate 


## Tech Lead Examples 

### Sample application & CE deprecation
I recommended the deprecation of 4 (out of 6) sample applications & 3 of our cloud extensions to the Pr Product Manager. 
The robomaker-platform team had just lost a Sr Manager & team was feeling stressed in maintaining a total of 28+ open source packages (6 sample apps & 7 CE for 2 versions of ROS). Esp since the team lost both the Product manager & Sr SDM almost around the same time (this meant no charter etc). the org was worried about how to proceed with these packages. I started to look for usage data ( innovatively pulled from user-agent string in AWS SDK), build a dashboard which clearly showed which of packages were being used and which ones were not. I also provided a table listing out the operational burden T-Shirt sizes that made the C/B analysis easy for PM & we decided to deprecate the unused packages
Tags: Frugality 


### RoboMaker Platform team post Adam (Q1 2020)
The L7 manager I was reporting to left at the end of q4 2019. I was the only L6 in a team of 7(self included). 
I helped my current manager who was new to the org to on-board to what the team was doing, worked to make sure our deliverables were on track, operations were continuing and all team commitments were being honored. In Q2 2020 the new manager initiated a restructuring of the entire org. I leveraged the opportunity to dissolve the team, find a new home for my teammates, ensured deliverables were met & ops was healthy. Worked with the restructured org to hand transition projects that the team owned (no outages or drop in availability during the transition).
Tags: Ownership, earns-trust


### 












---

## Customer Obsession
I worked backwards from a customer's requirements for running ROS2 in resource constrained environments. 
I evaluated relevant technologies (including external vendors like intel & )


 evaluating relevant technologies, working with customer and external teams. and getting to a CycloneDDS based solution that met customer needs
In 2018 I worked with a lighthouse customer to 




## Ownership




Invent and Simplify
- SR Liquidity 

Are Right, A Lot
- 

Learn and Be Curious
- Learning about client SDK (2010-2013)
- Learning about Android OS & making foundational contributions to core os functionality (2013-2015)
- Learning about & building a location service from scratch (2014-2016) 
- Learning about Dispatch Marketplace and Liquidity in ride sharing (2016-2018)
- Learning Robotics programming from scratch in 2018
- Learning Reinforcement learning from scratch in 2019-2020
- Learning Simulation from scratch 2020-2021




Hire and Develop the Best
*Time when you had to teach your colleague. (Hire & Develop the best)*
S: We working on a fairly ambigous problem (harvesting a schema etc). The team was stuck for 3 sprints trying to go beyond PoC
B: Stepped in and wrote 3 pesudo blogposts from a customers perspective on how to use this imaginary feature. Forced the team to think about how to find answers that will make us confident 
I: Team unblocked, design reviews progressing at good pace and we are now in iterative execution. 

Insist on the Highest Standards
- 100 % test coverage 


Think Big
- Building SimEX to support multiple simulators 
- In-effect we are building an open standard to manipulate objects in any simulator 

Another think Big: Amazon Location Provider
Intern project proposal that became a project
S: Cheap tablet had no GPS chip so needed location





Bias for Action
- ROS Build Farm: Critical dependency for service. 
- Replicated build farm was hand crafted Jenkins system done by engineer + external engineer
- New team of first timers charted with Operationalizing the setup 
- Stepped up as temporary solver role
	- Split the problem in acheivable objectives 
	- Productionize it layer by layer 
		- ASG for Jenkins worker nodes 
		- Pipeline to build AMI for the worker nodes 
		- LPT + NAWS setup to ensure subsequent deliveries are smooth & fast 


Frugality

Earn Trust
> Leaders listen attentively, speak candidly, and treat others respectfully. They are vocally self-critical, even when doing so is awkward or embarrassing. Leaders do not believe their or their team’s body odor smells of perfume. They benchmark themselves and their teams against the best.

1. Sample App & Cloud Extension Deprecation 





Dive Deep: 
- Unusable  -- Investigate middleware options for ROS , Go after vendors, do a benchmarking and recommend. 


Have Backbone; Disagree and Commit




Deliver Results
- 
